cloud: TiDB Cloud Essential supports built-in alerting (#22385)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/monitor-alert-email.md

> **Note:**
>
> Currently, alert subscription is available for [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-dedicated) and [TiDB Cloud Essential](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#essential) clusters.

## Prerequisites

- To subscribe to alert notifications of TiDB Cloud, you must have the `Organization Owner` access to your organization or `Project Owner` access to the target project in TiDB Cloud.

## Subscribe to alert notifications

> To receive alert notifications, take the following steps. The steps vary by cluster plans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To receive alert notifications, take the following steps. The steps vary by cluster plan.
```

> To receive alert notifications, take the following steps. The steps vary by product tier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To receive alert notifications, take the following steps. The steps vary by cluster plans.
```

    - If the test fails, an error message is displayed. Follow the message to troubleshoot the issue and then retry the connection.

7. Click **Save** to complete the subscription.
   
</CustomContent>

<CustomContent plan="essential">

> **Tip:**
>

> > The alert subscription is for all alerts in the current cluster. If you have multiple clusters, you need to subscribe to each one individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The alert subscription is for all alerts in the current cluster. If you have multiple clusters, you need to subscribe to each cluster individually.
```

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com), switch to your target cluster using the combo box in the upper-left corner.
2. In the left navigation pane, click **Settings** > **Alert Subscription**.
3. On the **Alert Subscription** page, click **Add Subscriber** in the upper-right corner.
4. Select **Email** from the **Subscriber Type** drop-down list.
5. Enter your email address.
6. Click **Test Connection**.

    - If the test succeeds, the **Save** button is displayed.
    - If the test fails, an error message is displayed. Follow the message to troubleshoot the issue and then retry the connection.

7. Click **Save** to complete the subscription.
   
</CustomContent>

Alternatively, you can also click **Subscribe** in the upper-right corner of the [**Alert**](/tidb-cloud/monitor-built-in-alerting.md#view-alerts) page of the cluster. You will be directed to the **Alert Subscription** page.

If an alert condition remains unchanged, the alert sends email notifications every three hours.

## Unsubscribe from alert notifications

> If you no longer want to receive alert notifications, please take the following steps. The steps vary by product tier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you no longer want to receive alert notifications, please take the following steps. The steps vary by cluster plans.
```
